README.md, before:

# Praelatus [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/praelatus/praelatus.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/praelatus/praelatus)

An Open Source bug tracker and ticketing system. It is licensed under the
[Apache 2.0 License](https://github.com/chasinglogic/praelatus/blob/master/LICENSE)

# Why Praelatus?

Praelatus is a modern bug tracker and ticketing system inspired by JIRA,
BugZilla, and the many support ticketing systems members of the Core Team
have used throughout their careers.

Grown from frustration with today’s disparate and difficult methods of bug
reporting, Praelatus aims to simplify the way other
[Open Source](https://opensource.org/) projects operate. Through intuitive
workflows and support for “Internet Driver’s License” accounts such as Github,
Google, and Twitter, any user can submit a ticket in three clicks or less –
including account creation – without the need of a user manual (though we wrote
one anyway because you can't have too much documentation).

# Contributing

Praelatus is built with [Python](https://python.org) and
[Django](https://djangoproject.org). We're open to any and all contributions.
Please read our [Contribution Documentation](contributing/) docs first.

Need help getting started hacking on Praelatus? No problem we have docs for that!

- [Contribution Guidelines](http://praelatus.io/#/contributing/)
- [HACKING](http://praelatus.io/#/hacking/)
- [REST API Reference](http://praelatus.io/#/api/)

Need more help? Feel free to [contact](#contact) us!

# Installation

View our deployment guides for your platform:
- [Linux](http://praelatus.io/#/deployments/Linux)
- [Windows](http://praelatus.io/#/deployments/Windows)

# License

Praelatus is distributed under the Apache License.

```
   Copyright 2016 Mathew Robinson

   Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
   you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
   You may obtain a copy of the License at

	   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

   Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
   distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
   WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
   See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
   limitations under the License.
```


# Core Team

Praelatus is maintained by these fine folks:

- [Mathew Robinson](https://github.com/chasinglogic)
- [Wes Swett](https://github.com/donotwesthisup)
- [Ryan Brzezinski](https://github.com/link867)

Commit message:

Update old links and licensing info

README.md, after:

# Praelatus [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/praelatus/praelatus.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/praelatus/praelatus)

An Open Source bug tracker and ticketing system. It is licensed under the
[Apache 2.0 License](https://github.com/chasinglogic/praelatus/blob/master/LICENSE)

# Why Praelatus?

Praelatus is a modern bug tracker and ticketing system inspired by JIRA,
BugZilla, and the many support ticketing systems members of the Core Team
have used throughout their careers.

Grown from frustration with today’s disparate and difficult methods of bug
reporting, Praelatus aims to simplify the way other
[Open Source](https://opensource.org/) projects operate. Through intuitive
workflows and support for “Internet Driver’s License” accounts such as Github,
Google, and Twitter, any user can submit a ticket in three clicks or less –
including account creation – without the need of a user manual (though we wrote
one anyway because you can't have too much documentation).

# Contributing

Praelatus is built with [Python](https://python.org) and
[Django](https://djangoproject.org). We're open to any and all contributions.
Please read our [Contribution Documentation](contributing/) docs first.

Need help getting started hacking on Praelatus? No problem we have docs for that!

- [Code of Conduct](https://github.com/praelatus/praelatus/blob/master/docs/contributing/code_of_conduct.md)
- [Contribution Guidelines](https://github.com/praelatus/praelatus/blob/master/docs/contributing/guidelines.md)
- [Hacking](https://github.com/praelatus/praelatus/blob/master/docs/contributing/hacking.md)

Need more help? Feel free to [contact](#contact) us!

# Installation

See our [installation docs](https://github.com/praelatus/praelatus/tree/master/docs/deployment) 
for more info.

# License

Praelatus is distributed under the Apache License.

```
    Praelatus, Free and Open Source Ticketing System.
    Copyright (C) 2018  Mathew Robinson

    This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
    it under the terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by
    the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
    (at your option) any later version.

    This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
    GNU Affero General Public License for more details.

    You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License
    along with this program.  If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
```


# Core Team

Praelatus is maintained by these fine folks:

- [Mathew Robinson](https://github.com/chasinglogic)
- [Wes Swett](https://github.com/donotwesthisup)
- [Ryan Brzezinski](https://github.com/link867)
